Title: Setting up the Server to host my Pelican Site
Date: 2021-07-05
Author: ryan
Tags: Pelican, Server
Series: Migrating to Pelican
Slug: setting-up-the-server-to-host-pelican
Status: published

# Creating the user on the server

Each site on my server has it's own user. This is a security consideration, more than anything else. For this site, I used the steps from [some of my scripts for setting up a Django site](https://www.ryancheley.com/2021/02/21/automating-the-deployment/). In particular, I ran the following code fron te shell on the server:

```
adduser --disabled-password --gecos "" ryancheley

adduser ryancheley www-data
```

The first command above creates the user with no password so that they can't actually log in. It also creates the home directory `/home/ryancheley`. This is where the site will be server from. 

The second commands adds the user to the `www-data` group. I don't think that's strictly neccesary here, but in order to keep this user consistent with the other web site users, I ran it to add it to the group. 

# Creating the nginx config file

For the most part I cribbed the `nginx` config files from this [blog post](https://michael.lustfield.net/nginx/blog-with-pelican-and-nginx). 

There were some changes that were required though. As I indicated in part 1, I had several requirements I was trying to fulfill, most notably not breaking historic links.

Here is the config file for my UAT site (the only difference between this and the prod site is the server name on line 3):

    #!bash
    server {

        server_name uat.ryancheley.com;
        root /home/ryancheley/output;

        location / {
            # Serve a .gz version if it exists
            gzip_static on;
            error_page 404 /404.html;
            rewrite ^/index.php/(.*) /$1  permanent;
        }

        location = /favicon.ico {
            # This never changes, so don't let it expire
            expires max;
        }


        location ^~ /theme {
            # This content should very rarely, if ever, change
            expires 1y;
        }

        listen [::]:443 ssl ipv6only=on; # managed by Certbot
        listen 443 ssl; # managed by Certbot
        ssl_certificate /etc/letsencrypt/live/uat.ryancheley.com/fullchain.pem; # managed by Certbot
        ssl_certificate_key /etc/letsencrypt/live/uat.ryancheley.com/privkey.pem; # managed by Certbot
        include /etc/letsencrypt/options-ssl-nginx.conf; # managed by Certbot
        ssl_dhparam /etc/letsencrypt/ssl-dhparams.pem; # managed by Certbot

    }

    server {
        if ($host = uat.ryancheley.com) {
            return 301 https://$host$request_uri;
        } # managed by Certbot



        listen [::]:80;
        listen 80;

        server_name uat.ryancheley.com;
        return 404; # managed by Certbot


    }


The most interesting part of the code above is the `location` block from lines 6 - 11. 

    :::bash
        location / {
            # Serve a .gz version if it exists
            gzip_static on;
            error_page 404 /404.html;
            rewrite ^/index.php/(.*) /$1  permanent;
        }


## Custom 404 Page

    :::bash
        error_page 404 /404.html;

This line is what allows me to have a custom [404](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/404) error page. If a page is not found `nginx` will serve up the html page `404.html` which is generated by a markdown file in my pages directory and looks like this:

    :::md
        Title: Not Found
        Status: hidden
        Save_as: 404.html

        The requested item could not be located.

I got this implementation idea from the [Pelican docs](https://docs.getpelican.com/en/4.6.0/tips.html?highlight=404#custom-404-pages).


## Rewrite rule for index.php in the URL

    :::bash
        rewrite ^/index.php/(.*) /$1  permanent;

The rewrite line fixes the `index.php` challenge I mentioned in the [previous post](https://www.ryancheley.com/2021/07/02/migrating-to-pelican-from-wordpress/)

It took me a *really* long time to figure this out because the initial config file had a `location` block that looked like this:

    #!bash
        location = / {
            # Instead of handling the index, just
            # rewrite / to /index.html
            rewrite ^ /index.html;
        }

I didn't recognize the `location = / {` on line 1 as being different than the `location` block above starting at line 6. So I added 
    
    :::bash
        rewrite ^/index.php/(.*) /$1  permanent;

to that block and it NEVER worked because it never could. 

The `=` in the location block indicates a literal exact match, which the regular expression couldn't do because it's trying to be dynamic, but the `=` indicates static 🤦🏻‍♂️

OK, we've got a user, and we've got a configuration file, now all we need is a way to get the files to the server. 

I'll go over that in the next post.